# Select Bibliography

## I. General

Dower, John. Embracing Defeat: Japan in the Wake of World War II. New York: W.W. Norton

and Co., 1999. ———. Japan in War and Peace: Selected Essays. New York: The New Press, 1993. Duus, Peter, ed. The Twentieth Century. Vol. 6 of The Cambridge History of Japan. Cambridge:

Cambridge University Press, 1989. Goldman, Merle, and Andrew Gordon, eds. Historical Perspectives on Contemporary East Asia. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2000. Gluck, Carol, and Stephen R. Graubard, eds. Sho¯wa: The Japan of Hirohito. New York: W. W. Norton and Co., 1992. Hardacre, Helen. Shinto¯ and the State, 1868–1988. Princeton, NJ.: Princeton University Press, 1989. Iriye, Akira. China and Japan in the Global Setting. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1993. Jansen, Marius B., ed. The Nineteenth Century. Vol. 5 of The Cambridge History of Japan. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1989. Johnson, Chalmers. MITI and the Japanese Miracle: The Growth of Industrial Policy, 1925–

1975. Stanford, Calif: Stanford University Press, 1982. Najita, Tetsuo. Japan. Englewood, N.J.: Prentice Hall, 1974. Najita, Tetsuo, and Victor Koschmann. Conflict in Modern Japanese History: The Neglected

Tradition. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1982. Totman, Conrad. Early Modern Japan. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1993.

II. TOKUGAWA JAPAN A. Society, Population and the Economy Bix, Herbert P. Peasant Protest in Japan, 1590–1884. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1986. Crawcour, S. “The Tokugawa Period and Japan’s Preparation for Modern Economic Growth.” Journal of Japanese Studies 1, no.1 (Autumn 1974):113–35. Howell, David L. Capitalism from Within: Economy, Society, and the State in a Japanese Fishery. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1995. Jannetta, Ann Bowman. Epidemics and Mortality in Early Modern Japan. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1987. McClain, James L. Kanazawa: A Seventeenth-Century Japanese Castle Town. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1982. Smith, T. C. The Agrarian Origins of Modern Japan. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1959.

———. Native Sources of Japanese Industrialization, 1750–1920. Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1988. Totman, Conrad. The Green Archipelago: Forestry in Preindustrial Japan. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1989. Vlastos, Stephan. Peasant Protests and Uprisings in Tokugawa Japan. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1986. Wigen, Ka¨ren. The Making of a Japanese Periphery, 1750–1920. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1995. B. Politics Bolitho, Harold. Treasures among Men: The Fudai Daimyo¯ in Tokugawa Japan. New Haven, Conn: Yale University Press, 1974. Hall, John W., and Marius B. Jansen, eds. Studies in the Institutional History of Early Modern Japan. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1968. Nakai, Kate Wildman. Shogunal Politics: Arai Hakuseki and the Premises of Tokugawa Rule. Harvard East Asian Monographs 134. Cambridge: Harvard University, Council on East Asian Studies, 1988. Toby, Ronald. State and Diplomacy in Early Modern Japan: Asia in the Development of the

Tokugawa Bakufu. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1984. Totman, Conrad. Politics in the Tokugawa Bakufu. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1967. Webb, Herschel. The Japanese Imperial Institution in the Tokugawa Period. New York: Colum

bia University Press, 1968. C. Thought and Culture Dore, Ronald. Education in Tokugawa Japan. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1965. Elison, George. Deus Destroyed. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1974. Harootunian, H. D. Things Seen and Unseen: Discourse and Ideology in Tokugawa Nativism. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1988. Kelly, William W. Deference and Defiance in Nineteenth-Century Japan. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1985. Maruyama, M. Studies in the Intellectual History of Tokugawa Japan. Translated by Mikiso Hane. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1974. Najita, Tetsuo. Visions of Virtue in Tokugawa Japan. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1987. Ooms, Herman. Tokugawa Ideology: Early Constructs, 1570–1680. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1985. Wakabayashi, Bob Tadashi. Anti-Foreignism and Western Learning in Early-Modern Japan: The New Theses of 1825. Cambridge: Harvard University, Council on East Asian Studies, 1986.

## III. the Bakumatsu and Meiji Restoration

Craig, Albert M. Cho¯shu¯ in the Meiji Restoration. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1961. Harootunian, H. D. Toward Restoration: The Growth of Political Consciousness in Tokugawa Japan. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1970. Huber, Thomas. The Revolutionary Origins of Modern Japan. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1981. Jansen, Marius B. Sakamoto Ryo¯ma and the Meiji Restoration. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1961. Walthall, Anne. The Weak Body of a Useless Woman: Matsuo Taseko and the Meiji Restoration. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1998. Wilson, George M. Patriots and Redeemers in Japan, Motives in the Meiji Restoration. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1992.

IV. MEIJI ERA A. Society, Population, and the Economy Hirschmeier, Johannes. The Origins of Entrepreneurship in Meiji Japan. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1964. Moulder, Frances. Japan, China and the Modern World Economy. New York: Cambridge University Press, 1977. Reischauer, Haru Matsukata. Samurai and Silk: A Japanese and American Heritage. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1986. Rosenstone, Robert A. Mirror in the Shrine: American Encounters with Meiji Japan. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1988. Smith, Thomas C. Political Change and Industrial Development in Japan: Government Enterprise, 1868–1880. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1955. Tsurumi, E. Patricia. Factory Girls: Women in the Thread Mills of Meiji Japan. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1990. Wray, William D. Mitsubishi and the N.Y.K., 1870–1914: Business Strategy in the Japanese Shipping Industry. Cambridge: Harvard University, Council on East Asian Studies, 1984. B. Politics and Foreign Policy Akita, George. Foundations of Constitutional Government in Modern Japan, 1868–1900. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1967. Conroy, Hilary. The Japanese Seizure of Korea, 1868–1910. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1960. Hackett, R. F. Yamagata Aritomo in the Rise of Modern Japan, 1838–1922. Cambridge: Harvard

University Press, 1973. Hall, Ivan. Mori Arinori. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1973. Jones, Hazel L. Live Machines: Hired Foreigners and Meiji Japan. Vancouver: University of

British Columbia, 1980. Pittau, J. Political Thought in Early Meiji Japan, 1868–1889. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1967. C. Thought and Culture Bartholomew, James R. The Formation of Science in Japan. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1989. Gluck, Carol. Japan’s Modern Myths: Ideology in the Late Meiji Period. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1985. Irokawa, Daikichi. The Culture of the Meiji Period. Translated and edited by Marius B. Jansen. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1985. Ketelaar, James Edward. Of Heretics and Martyrs in Meiji Japan: Buddhism and Its Persecution. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1990. Kinmonth, Earl H. The Self-Made Man in Meiji Japanese Thought: From Samurai to Salary Man. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1981.

V. IMPERIAL ERA A. Politics, Foreign Policy, Colonialism, and Imperialism Berger, Gordon. Parties Out of Power in Japan, 1931–1941. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1977. Bix, Herbert. Hirohito and the Making of Modern Japan. New York: HarperCollins Publishers, 2000. Borg, Dorothy, ed. Pearl Harbor as History: Japanese American Relations, 1931–1941. New York: Columbia University Press, 1973.

Choi, Chungmoo. The Comfort Women: Colonialism, War, and Sex. Durham, N.C.: Duke University Press, 1997. [Positions special issue 5, no. 1 (Spring 1997)]. Coox, Alvin D. Nomonhan: Japan against Russia, 1939. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1985. Crowley, James. Japan’s Quest for Autonomy. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1966. Dickinson, Frederick R. War and National Reinvention: Japan in the Great War, 1914–1919. Cambridge: Harvard University Asia Center, 1999. Dower, John. Empire and Aftermath: Yoshida Shigeru and the Japanese Experience. Cambridge: Harvard University Council on East Asia Studies, 1979. Duus, Peter. The Abacus and the Sword: The Japanese Penetration of Korea, 1895–1910. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1995. ———. Party Rivalry and Politics: Change in Taisho¯ Japan. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1968. Fogel, Joshua, ed. The Nanjing Massacre in History and Historiography. Berkeley: University of California Press, 2000. Fujitani, Takeshi. Splendid Monarchy: Power and Pageantry in Modern Japan. Berkeley, Los Angeles, and London: University of California Press, 1996. Iriye, Akira. After Imperialism: The Search for a New Order in the Far East, 1921–1931. Harvard University Press, 1965. Lewis, Michael. Becoming Apart: National Power and Local Politics in Toyama, 1868–1945. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2000. Morley, James W., ed. Dilemmas of Growth in Prewar Japan. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1971. Najita, Tetsuo. Hara Kei and the Politics of Compromise, 1905–1915. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1967. Ogata, Sadako. Defiance in Manchuria: The Making of Japanese Foreign Policy. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1964. Peattie, Mark. Ishiwara Kanji and Japan’s Confrontation with the West. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1975. Pelz, Stephen. The Race to Pearl Harbor. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1971. Silberman, Bernard, and H. D. Harootunian, eds. Japan in Crisis: Essays on Taisho¯ Democracy. Ann Arbor: Center for Japanese Studies, the University of Michigan, 1999. Smith, Henry D. Japan’s First Student Radicals. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1972. Titus, David. Palace and Politics in Prewar Japan. New York: Columbia University Press, 1974. Wilson, George. Radical Nationalist in Japan: Kita Ikki, 1863–1937. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1969. Yamanouchi, Yasushi, Victor J. Koschmann, and Ryu¯ ichi Narita, eds. Total War and “Modernization.” Ithaca, N.Y.: East Asia Program, Cornell University, 1998. Young, Louise. Japan’s Total Empire: Manchuria and the Culture of Wartime Imperialism. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1998. B. Economy Barnhart, Michael A. Japan Prepares for Total War: The Search for Economic Security 1919–1941. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1987. Ericson, Steven J. The Sound of the Whistle: Railroads and the State in Meiji Japan. Cambridge: Council on East Asian Studies, Harvard University Press, 1996. Lockwood, William M., ed. The State and Economic Enterprise in Japan. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1965. Marshall, Byron. Capitalism and Nationalism in Prewar Japan: The Ideology of the Business Elite. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1967.

Molony, Barbara. Technology and Investment: The Prewar Japanese Chemical Industry. Cambridge: Council on East Asian Studies: Harvard University Press, 1990. Patrick, Hugh, ed. Japanese Industrialization and Its Social Consequences. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1976. Smith, Kerry. A Time of Crisis: Japan, the Great Depression, and Rural Revitalization. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2001. Wray, William D., ed. Managing Industrial Enterprise: Cases from Japan’s Prewar Experience. Cambridge: Harvard University, Council on East Asian Studies, 1990. C. Society and Culture Barshay, Andrew E. State and Intellectual in Imperial Japan: The Public Man in Crisis. Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1989. Bernstein, Gail. Japanese Marxist: A Portrait of Kawakami Hajime, 1879–1946. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1976. Dore, Ronald. British Factory–Japanese Factory: The Origins of National Diversity in Employment Relations. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1973. Dower, John W. War without Mercy: Race and Power in the Pacific War. New York: Pantheon Books, 1986. Fogel, Joshua. Politics and Sinology: The Case of Naito¯ Konan (1866–1934). Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1984. Garon, Sheldon. Molding Japanese Minds: The State in Everyday Life. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1997. ———. The State and Labor in Modern Japan. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1987. Gordon, Andrew. The Evolution of Labor Relations in Japan: Heavy Industry, 1853–1955. Cambridge: Harvard University, Council on East Asian Studies, 1985. Havens, Thomas. Farm and Nation in Japan. New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1975. Hoston, Germaine A. Marxism and the Crisis of Development in Prewar Japan. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1986. Lewis, Michael. Rioters and Citizens: Mass Protest in Imperial Japan. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1990. Mackie, Vera. Creating Socialist Women in Japan: Gender, Labour, and Activism, 1900–1937. New York: Cambridge University Press, 1997. Maruyama, Masao. Thought and Behavior in Modern Japanese Politics. London and New York: Oxford University Press, 1963. Minichiello, Sharon, ed. Japan’s Competing Modernities: Issues in Culture and Democracy, 1900–1930. Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 1998. Mitchell, Richard H. Thought Control in Prewar Japan. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1976. Nolte, Sharon H. Liberalism in Modern Japan: Ishibashi Tanzan and His Teachers, 1905–1960. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1986. Pyle, Kenneth. The New Generation in Meiji Japan: Problems of Cultural Identity 1885–1895. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1969. Roden, Donald. Schooldays in Imperial Japan: A Study in the Culture of a Student Elite. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1980. Sievers, Sharon L. Flowers in Salt: The Beginnings of Feminist Consciousness in Modern Japan. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1983. Smith, Robert J., and Ella Lury Wiswell. The Women of Suye Mura. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1983. Tanaka, Stefan. Japan’s Orient: Rendering Pasts in History. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1993.

Tsutsui, William M. Manufacturing Ideology: Scientific Management in Twentieth-Century Japan. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1998. Uno, Kathleen S. Passages to Modernity: Motherhood, Childhood, and Social Reform in Early Twentieth Century Japan. Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 1999. Vlastos, Stephen, ed. Mirror of Modernity: Invented Traditions of Modern Japan. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1998. Waswo, Ann. Japanese Landlords: The Decline of a Rural Elite. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1977.

VI. POSTWAR AND CONTEMPORARY JAPAN A. Government and Politics Allinson, Gary D. Japanese Urbanism: Industry and Politics in Kariya, 1872–1972. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1975. ———. Suburban Tokyo: A Comparative Study in Politics and Social Change. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1979. Dower, John. Embracing Defeat: Japan in the Wake of World War II. New York: W.W. Norton and Co., 1999. George, Timothy. Minamata: Pollution and the Struggle for Democracy in Postwar Japan.

Cambridge: Harvard Asia Center, 2000. Gordon, Andrew, ed. Postwar Japan as History. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1993. Gordon, Beate Sirota. The Only Woman in the Room. Tokyo, New York, and London: Kodansha

International, 1997. Hein, Laura E. Fueling Growth: The Energy Revolution and Economic Policy in Postwar Japan. Cambridge: Council on East Asian Studies, Harvard University Press, 1990. Masumi, Junnosuke. Contemporary Politics in Japan. Translated by Lonny E. Carlisle. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1995. ———. Postwar Politics in Japan, 1945–1955. Translated by Lonny E. Carlisle. Berkeley: University of California, Institute of East Asian Studies, Center for Japanese Studies, 1985. Moore, Joe. Japanese Workers and the Struggle for Power, 1945–1947. Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1983. Nakamura, Masanori. The Japanese Monarchy, 1931–1991: Ambassador Grew and the Making of the “Symbol Emperor System.” Armonk, N.Y.: M.E. Sharpe, 1992. Packard, George R. Protest in Tokyo: The Security Treaty Crisis of 1960. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1966. Pempel, T. J. Policy and Politics in Japan: Creative Conservatism. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 1982. Pharr, Susan J. Losing Face: Status Politics in Japan. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1990. Samuels, Richard J. “Rich Nation, Strong Army”: National Security and the Technological Transformation of Japan. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1994. Ward, Robert E., and Yoshikazu Sakamoto, eds. Policy Planning during the Allied Occupation of Japan. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1981. B. Economy and Society Allinson, Anne. Nightwork: Sexuality, Pleasure, and Corporate Masculinity in a Tokyo Hostess

Club. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1994. Bestor, Theodore C. Neighborhood Tokyo. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1989. Brinton, Mary C. Women and the Economic Miracle: Gender and Work in Postwar Japan.

Berkeley: University of California Press, 1993.

Dore, Ronald P. British Factory—Japanese Factory: The Origins of National Diversity in Industrial Relations. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1973. Edwards, Walter. Modern Japan through Its Weddings: Gender, Person, and Society in Ritual Portrayal. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1989. Fowler, Edward. San’ya Blues: Laboring Life in Contemporary Japan. Ithaca, N.Y., and London: Cornell University Press, 1996. Gordon, Andrew. The Wages of Affluence: Labor and Management in Postwar Japan. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1998. Hardacre, Helen. Marketing the Menacing Fetus in Japan. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1997. Hunter, Janet, ed. Japanese Women Working. London and New York: Routledge, 1993. Ishida, Hiroshi. Social Mobility in Contemporary Japan. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1993. Johnson, Chalmers. MITI and the Japanese Miracle: The Growth of Industrial Policy, 1925–1975. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1982. Kondo, Dorinne K. Crafting Selves: Power, Gender, and Discourses of Identity in a Japanese Workplace. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1990. Kumazawa, Makoto. Portraits of the Japanese Workplace: Labor Movements, Workers and Managers. Edited by Andrew Gordon and translated by Andrew Gordon and Mikiso Hane. Boulder, Colo.: Westview Press, 1996. LeBlanc, Robin. Bicycle Citizens: The Political World of the Japanese Housewife. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1999. McCormack, Gavan, and Yoshio Sugimoto, eds. Democracy in Contemporary Japan. Armonk N.Y.: M.E. Sharpe, 1986. Nakamura, Takafusa. The Postwar Japanese Economy: Its Development and Structure. Tokyo: University of Tokyo Press, 1981. Nakane, Chie. Japanese Society. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1972. Norbeck, Edward, and Margaret Lock, eds. Health, Illness, and Medical Care in Japan: Cultural and Social Dimensions. Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 1987. Ogasawara, Yu¯ko. Office Ladies and Salaried Men: Power, Gender, and Work in Japanese Companies. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1998. Partner, Simon. Assembled in Japan: Electrical Goods and the Making of the Japanese Consumer. Berkeley: University of California Press, 2000. Patrick, Hugh, and Henry Rosovsky, eds. Asia’s New Giant: How the Japanese Economy Works. Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institution, 1976. Pharr, Susan J. Political Women in Japan: The Search for a Place in Political Life. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1981. Price, John. Japan Works: Power and Paradox in Postwar Industrial Relations. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1997. Robertson, Jennifer. Native and Newcomer: Making and Remaking a Japanese City. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1991. Rohlen, Thomas P. Japan’s High Schools. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1983. ———. For Harmony and Strength: Japanese White-Collar Organization in Anthropological Perspective. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1974. Smith, Robert J. Kurusu: The Price of Progress in a Japanese Village, 1951–1975. Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1978. Upham, Frank K. Law and Social Change in Postwar Japan. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1987. Vogel, Ezra F. Japan’s New Middle Class: The Salary Man and His Family in a Tokyo Suburb. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1971.

C. Thought and Culture Burkman, Thomas W. The Occupation of Japan: Arts and Culture. Norfolk, Va.: Liskey Lithograph, 1988. Cary, Otis, ed. War-Wasted Asia: Letters, 1945–46. Tokyo and New York: Kodansha International, 1975. Field, Norma. In the Realm of a Dying Emperor: A Portrait of Japan at Century’s End. New York: Pantheon Books, 1991. Kersten, Rikki. Democracy in Postwar Japan: Maruyama Masao and the Search of Autonomy. London and New York: Routledge, 1996. Koschmann, Victor. Revolution and Subjectivity in Postwar Japan. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1996. Krauss, Ellis S. Japanese Radicals Revisited: Student Protest in Postwar Japan. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1974. Lifton, Robert J. Death in Life: The Survivors of Hiroshima. New York: Random House, 1968. Olson, Lawrence. Ambivalent Moderns: Portraits of Japanese Cultural Identity. Lanham, Md.: Rowman and Littlefield Publishers, Inc., 1992. Treat, John Whittier. Writing Ground Zero: Japanese Literature and the Atomic Bomb. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1995. Tsurumi, Shunsuke. A Cultural History of Postwar Japan, 1945–1980. London: KPI Limited, 1987. D. Japan and the World Buckley, Roger. U.S.–Japan Alliance Diplomacy, 1945–1990. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1992. Encarnation, Dennis J. Rivals beyond Trade: America versus Japan in Global Competition. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1992. Havens, Thomas H. Fire across the Sea: The Vietnam War and Japan, 1965–1975. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1987. Hein, Laura, and Mark Selden, eds. Living with the Bomb: American and Japanese Cultural Conflicts in the Nuclear Age. Armonk, N.Y.: M.E. Sharpe, 1997. Miyoshi, Masao. Off Center: Power and Culture Relations between Japan and the United States. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1991. Nagai, Yo¯nosuke, and Akira Iriye, eds. The Origins of the Cold War in Asia. New York: Columbia University Press, 1977. Pyle, Kenneth B. The Japanese Question: Power and Purpose in a New Era. Washington, D.C.: The AEI Press, 1992. Schonberger, Howard B. Aftermath of War: Americans and the Remaking of Japan, 1945–1952. Kent, Ohio: The Kent State University Press, 1989.
